# Falco APIs

## Summary

This is a proposal to better structure the Falco API.

It will contain a list of gRPC services that can be added to have a first stable version of the API for v1.0.0.

## Motivation

We want to enable users to use thirdy-party clients to interface with Falco outputs, inputs, rules, and configurations.

Such ability would enable the community to create a whole set of OSS tools, built on top of Falco.

Some examples, already in place, are:

- [falcoctl](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcoctl)
- [falco-exporter](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco-exporter)

## Goals

- To design and implement an API to make Falco more configurable
- To design and implement an API to make Falco more consumable
- To design a set of simple contract interfaces
- To have a secure by default Falco API

## Non-Goals

-

## Proposal

### Use cases

- Receive Falco events with a well-defined contract over wire --> **outputs**
- Receive Falco drops with a well-defined contract over wire --> **drops**
- Receive current Falco version and related meta information (commit hash, built type, etc.) --> **version**
- Configure Falco via API (CRUD) -> **configs**
- Inject and/or modify Falco rules via API (CRUD) --> **rules**
- Send input events to Falco over wire --> **inputs**

### Unary services

#### Version

#### Rules

#### Configs

### Streaming (server or client) services

#### Outputs

#### Drops

### Bidirectional streaming services

#### Inputs

### Architecture

We propose to have:
- 1 gRPC server
- 1 service grouping services by their type, so
  - 1 service for **unary** services
  - 1 service for **streaming** services
  - 1 service for **bidirectional** services

This translates in having the following set of `proto` files.

- a `.proto` containing the request and response messages for any service - eg., `version.proto`, `outputs.proto` etc.

    For example,
    ```protobuf
    # version.proto
    message request
    {
      ...
    }

    // The `response` message contains the version of Falco.
    // It provides the whole version as a string and also
    // its parts as per semver 2.0 specification (https://semver.org).
    message response
    {
    string version = 1;
      uint32 major = 2;
      uint32 minor = 3;
      uint32 patch = 4;
      string prerelease = 5;
      string build = 6;
    }
    ```

- one or more `.proto` containing the commond models - ie., the already existing `schema.proto` containing source enum, etc.

    ```protobuf
    # schema.proto
    enum priority {
      ..
    }
    enum source {
    option allow_alias = true;
      SYSCALL = 0;
      syscall = 0;
      Syscall = 0;
      K8S_AUDIT = 1;
      k8s_audit = 1;
      K8s_audit = 1;
      K8S_audit = 1;
    }
    ```

- a `.proto` for service definitions

    For example
    ```protobuf
    service unary {
      rpc version(request) returns (response);
      ...
    }
    service streaming {
      rpc outputs(request) returns (stream response);
      rpc drops(request) returns (stream response);
    }
    service bidirectional {
      ...
    }
    ```

#### Benefits

We think this structure makes the implementation easier to write and to maintain because it automatically matches the abstractions - ie., one service by RPC type, a pool of contexts by RPC type - implemented in the code.

#### Limitations

Having more RPCs of the same type (eg., outputs and drops) sharing the same service means:

* they will share the number of simultaneous completion queue requests the gRPC server can handle

This assertion is true in the current implementation.
Creating one completion queue for every RPC would solve this in case this proves to have a significant impact on the level of performances we desire to achieve.

#### Diagrams
